README.md, before:

# Hide

![image](https://haxe.org/img/blog/2020-04-06-shirogames-stack/hide.png)

Hide (Heaps IDE) is an extensible editor that can be used as a middleware for various tasks, such as:
- preview 3D models and textures
- edit materials properties
- create timeline based visual effects and movements
- create whole 3D levels, place lights, paint terrain, bake shadow maps and volumetric light maps
- create and edit 2D and 3D particles systems
- edit and modify your [Castle](https://github.com/ncannasse/castle) Database
- extend by adding game specific prefabs
- extend with your own game specific editors


## Compiling from source
#### 1. Install Prerequisites
- Install [Haxe](https://haxe.org/) using approriate installer from https://haxe.org/download/
- Install these libraries:
```
haxelib git heaps https://github.com/HeapsIO/heaps
haxelib git castle https://github.com/ncannasse/castle
haxelib git hxbit https://github.com/ncannasse/hxbit
haxelib git hscript https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hscript
haxelib git hxnodejs https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hxnodejs
haxelib git domkit https://github.com/HeapsIO/domkit
haxelib git hx3compat https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hx3compat
```

#### 2. Build Heaps IDE
- Clone this repo
- Run `haxe hide.hxml`
- This will create hide.js in the bin folder
- If there are errors when compiling, make sure you are using the latest libraries from git

#### 3. Run with NWJS
- Download and copy [NWJS](https://nwjs.io/) into the /bin/nwjs directory
- Build with `haxe hide.hxml -cmd bin/hide.cmd`
    - Windows: Run hide.cmd
    - Linux: Run nwjs/nwjs from bin directory
    - OSX: Copy all files from bin into bin/nwjs.app/Contents/Resources/app.nw folder, then open the NWJS application


## Configuration

In your project's resource folder, you can create a `props.json` configuration file to override Hide's default settings. Refer to `bin/defaultProps.json` for the list of available settings. 


## Extending Hide

### Custom plugin

In your project, create an hxml configuration for building the plugin. Example:
```hxml
# hide-plugin.hxml
-cp src
-lib hide
-lib hxnodejs
-lib castle
--macro hide.Plugin.init()
-js hide-plugin.js
-debug
HideImports
```
`HideImports.hx` here is just a file that lists all the classes you want to embed in your plugin. Example:
```haxe
// HideImports.hx
import prefabs.MyPrefab1;
import prefabs.MyPrefab2;
```
Running `haxe hide-plugin.hxml` should now generate a `hide-plugin.js` plugin file.

In your project configuration file (`res/props.json`) you can now include this file like so:
```json
{
    "plugins": ["../hide-plugin.js"]
}
```
Aside from javascript plugins, you can add your own stylsheets:
```json
{
    "plugins": ["../hide-plugin-style.css"]
}
```

### Custom prefab

Example of a project-specific custom prefab:
```haxe
import hrt.prefab.Context;
import hrt.prefab.Library;

class MyPrefab extends hrt.prefab.Object3D {
    
    public function new(?parent) {
        super(parent);
        type = "myprefab";
    }

    override function make(ctx:Context):Context {
        var ret = super.make(ctx);
        // Custom code...
        return ret;
    }

    #if editor

    override function getHideProps() : hide.prefab.HideProps {
        return { icon : "cog", name : "MyPrefab" };
    }

    #end

    static var _ = Library.register("myprefab", MyPrefab);
}
```

### Custom file views
You can add your own viewers/editors for files, by extending `hide.view.FileView` class:

```haxe
import hide.view.FileView;

class CustomView extends FileView {
    
    // onDisplay should create html layout of your view. It is also called each when file is changed externally.
    override public function onDisplay()
    {
        // Example of initial layout setup.
        element.html('
          <div class="flex vertical">
            <div class="toolbar"></div>
            <div class="content"></div>
          </div>
        ');
        var tools = new hide.comp.Toolbar(null, element.find(".toolbar"));
        var content = element.find(".content"));
        // Importantly, use `getPath()` to obtain file path that you can use for filesystem access.
        var path = getPath();
        // ... your code to fill content
  }
  
  // Register the view with specific extensions.
  // Extensions starting with `json.` refer to `.json` files with `type` at root
  // object being second part of extension ("type": "customView" in this sample).
  // Otherwise it is treated as regular file extension.
  // Providing icon and createNew is optional. If createNew set, HIDE file tree will have a context menu item to create new file that FileView represents.
  static var _ = hide.view.FileTree.registerExtension(CustomView, ["json.customView", "customview"], { icon: "snowflake-o", createNew: "Dialog Context" });
  
}
```

Commit message:

Add support for nightly builds via GitHub Actions

README.md, after:

# Hide

[![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/HeapsIO/hide/CI.svg?logo=github)](https://github.com/HeapsIO/hide/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)

![image](https://haxe.org/img/blog/2020-04-06-shirogames-stack/hide.png)

Hide (Heaps IDE) is an extensible editor that can be used as a middleware for various tasks, such as:
- preview 3D models and textures
- edit materials properties
- create timeline based visual effects and movements
- create whole 3D levels, place lights, paint terrain, bake shadow maps and volumetric light maps
- create and edit 2D and 3D particles systems
- edit and modify your [Castle](https://github.com/ncannasse/castle) Database
- extend by adding game specific prefabs
- extend with your own game specific editors

## Nightly builds

If you don't want to build Hide from source, you can download a nightly build from [here](http://37.187.145.134:8080/hide-builds/).

## Compiling from source
#### 1. Install Prerequisites
- Install [Haxe](https://haxe.org/) using approriate installer from https://haxe.org/download/
- Install these libraries:
```
haxelib git heaps https://github.com/HeapsIO/heaps
haxelib git castle https://github.com/ncannasse/castle
haxelib git hxbit https://github.com/ncannasse/hxbit
haxelib git hscript https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hscript
haxelib git hxnodejs https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hxnodejs
haxelib git domkit https://github.com/HeapsIO/domkit
haxelib git hx3compat https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hx3compat
```

#### 2. Build Heaps IDE
- Clone this repo
- Run `haxe hide.hxml`
- This will create hide.js in the bin folder
- If there are errors when compiling, make sure you are using the latest libraries from git

#### 3. Install NWJS
- Download and copy [NWJS](https://nwjs.io/) into the `/bin/nwjs` directory
- On OSX, copy all files from `bin` into the `bin/nwjs.app/Contents/Resources/app.nw` folder

## Running

- Windows: Run `hide.cmd`
- Linux: Run `nwjs/nwjs`
- OSX: Open the NWJS application

## Configuration

In your project's resource folder, you can create a `props.json` configuration file to override Hide's default settings. Refer to `bin/defaultProps.json` for the list of available settings. 


## Extending Hide

### Custom plugin

In your project, create an hxml configuration for building the plugin. Example:
```hxml
# hide-plugin.hxml
-cp src
-lib hide
-lib hxnodejs
-lib castle
--macro hide.Plugin.init()
-js hide-plugin.js
-debug
HideImports
```
`HideImports.hx` here is just a file that lists all the classes you want to embed in your plugin. Example:
```haxe
// HideImports.hx
import prefabs.MyPrefab1;
import prefabs.MyPrefab2;
```
Running `haxe hide-plugin.hxml` should now generate a `hide-plugin.js` plugin file.

In your project configuration file (`res/props.json`) you can now include this file like so:
```json
{
    "plugins": ["../hide-plugin.js"]
}
```
Aside from javascript plugins, you can add your own stylsheets:
```json
{
    "plugins": ["../hide-plugin-style.css"]
}
```

### Custom prefab

Example of a project-specific custom prefab:
```haxe
import hrt.prefab.Context;
import hrt.prefab.Library;

class MyPrefab extends hrt.prefab.Object3D {
    
    public function new(?parent) {
        super(parent);
        type = "myprefab";
    }

    override function make(ctx:Context):Context {
        var ret = super.make(ctx);
        // Custom code...
        return ret;
    }

    #if editor

    override function getHideProps() : hide.prefab.HideProps {
        return { icon : "cog", name : "MyPrefab" };
    }

    #end

    static var _ = Library.register("myprefab", MyPrefab);
}
```

### Custom file views
You can add your own viewers/editors for files, by extending `hide.view.FileView` class:

```haxe
import hide.view.FileView;

class CustomView extends FileView {
    
    // onDisplay should create html layout of your view. It is also called each when file is changed externally.
    override public function onDisplay()
    {
        // Example of initial layout setup.
        element.html('
          <div class="flex vertical">
            <div class="toolbar"></div>
            <div class="content"></div>
          </div>
        ');
        var tools = new hide.comp.Toolbar(null, element.find(".toolbar"));
        var content = element.find(".content"));
        // Importantly, use `getPath()` to obtain file path that you can use for filesystem access.
        var path = getPath();
        // ... your code to fill content
  }
  
  // Register the view with specific extensions.
  // Extensions starting with `json.` refer to `.json` files with `type` at root
  // object being second part of extension ("type": "customView" in this sample).
  // Otherwise it is treated as regular file extension.
  // Providing icon and createNew is optional. If createNew set, HIDE file tree will have a context menu item to create new file that FileView represents.
  static var _ = hide.view.FileTree.registerExtension(CustomView, ["json.customView", "customview"], { icon: "snowflake-o", createNew: "Dialog Context" });
  
}
```
